Alfalfa has been around for centuries and is an overlooked wonder food. It is helpful for just about all kinds of health problems, especially those caused by nutritional deficiencies. Historically, the benefits of alfalfa were discovered centuries ago by Arabian horsemen who, upon feeding this wild edible to their livestock, noticed a jump in energy and performance. People who eat alfalfa report similar benefits. Many medical naturopathic doctors and alternative health professionals state that alfalfa is not only nutritious, it is an effective remedy for many ailments and it is used in the treatment for alcoholism and drug dependency.
Edible alliums are really useful in the kitchen, they include versatile vegetables such as onions (Allium cepa), shallots (Allium cepa Aggregatum Group), garlic, and leeks and  herbs such as, chives (Allium schoenoprasum) and wild garlic (Allium ursinum) which make great garnishes in salads, soups and many other dishes.
Borage was cultivated for culinary and medicinal uses, although today, commercial cultivation is mainly as an oilseed.Borage is used as either a fresh vegetable or a dried herb. As a fresh vegetable, borage, with a cucumber-like taste, is often used in salads or as a garnish.The flower has a sweet, honey-like taste and is often used to decorate desserts and cocktails,most commonly, frozen in ice cubes.The leaves are edible.The plant is also commercially cultivated for borage seed oil extracted from its seeds.The plant contains pyrrolizidine alkaloids, some of which are hepatotoxic, mutagenic, and carcinogenic.
Burdock recognized mainly for its burrs, burdock is an interesting biennial plant because it consists primarily of carbohydrates, volatile oils, plant sterols, tannins, and fatty oils. Researchers aren't sure which active ingredients in the root are responsible for its healing properties, but this plant may have anti-inflammatory and antibacterial effects. In fact, recent studies show that it contains phenolic acids, quercetin and luteolin - all are powerful antioxidants. In its first year this plant has no stem and grows only as a basal rosette of leaves that stays close to the ground the first year and the beginning of the second.
Calendula's leaves and petals of this plant are edible. The leaves are typically bitter and often are added to leafy salads. The fresh petals are used as a garnish,seasoning,or a traditional yellow cheese colorant. Calendula was also used historically as medicine and a dye for fabrics, foods, and cosmetics.Harvest the whole flower tops or just the petals when the flowers are fully expanded. Pick after any dew has dried and dry in a well-ventilated place out of direct sunlight. Store in well-sealed containers.
Young cattail shoots and roots are also edible parts of cattail plants. The young shoots are found once the outer leaves are stripped and can then be used stir fried or sautéed. They are referred to as Cossack asparagus, although the tender, white shoots taste more like cucumbers.The tough, fibrous roots can also be harvested. They are then dried and ground into flour or boiled down with water to separate the starch. The starch is then used much like corn starch to thicken gravies and sauces. Care should be taken when using the edible root parts of a cattail.
Chickweed flowers and leaves can be eaten raw or cooked. Fresh flowers and leaves are tossed into salads, stir fries, stews, or pesto. Chickweed is also grown as feed for chickens and pigs, hence its common names clucken wort, chicken weed, and birdseed. Wild birds also love to eat chickweed seeds.
Chicory is edible.Chicory is an herbaceous plant in the dandelion family. It has bright blue, and sometimes white or pink, blossoms. When eating chicory plants the leaves, buds, and roots can all be consumed.
Chive blossom pretty, light purple, edible flower has a light onion flavor. Chive blossoms can be tossed in a salad or, more commonly, used to garnish a dish.It produce edible white flowers with a garlic flavor that is stronger than the leaf itself.Chive blossoms are a flavorful, aromatic, and colorful edible flower that will appear at the end of chive stalks in late springtime.
Coltsfoot is a perennial plant that looks similar to a dandelion when it blooms in spring.This wild edible plant is unusual in that the flowers bloom and die before the appearance of any leaves. Before the introduction of matches, the felt-like covering of the plant, wrapped in a rag and dipped in a solution of saltpetre, was considered to be excellent tinder after being dried in the sun. This plant contains mucilage, bitter glycosides, and tannins; it is these that are thought to give the herb anti-inflammatory and antitussive (cough prevention and treatment) properties. Coltsfoot root contains pyrrolizidine alkaloids, potentially toxic constituents and it suspected that there may be small quantities in the leaves.
The common mallow is part of the large family of Malvaceae plants that include cotton, okra and hibiscus. It is an edible plant that has been used for medicinal care as well as food. The fruits are round and have cheese-like wedges which give the common mallow its nickname, cheese plant. Mallow stems are flexible and come from a central point, often lounging on the ground. This wild edible is used as herbal medicine in a variety of ways. It is an anti-inflammatory, diuretic, demulcent, emollient, laxative and an expectorant.
Common milkweed is also edible to humans. While monarch larvae dine on the leaves of older milkweed plants, humans can enjoy other parts of the plant.It is best to cook milkweed before eating it (by simply boiling it until tender), but it is never bitter.
Common Vetch also known as Poor Man's Peas, this plant is the one edible vetch to be found in the landscape. It is easily distinguishable as the edible variety by the pea-like fragrance emanating from the plant, the position of the flowers, and the glabrous (hairless) nature of the stems and leaves. Common vetch is one of the better ones. The young shoots are edible raw, but better cooked. Vetch is a pretty good potherb, if you go for the younger leaves.
Common Yarrow has a strong licorice-like scent and a mildly sweet flavor that's similar to tarragon. This entire plant is edible, but its leaves and flowers are especially popular to use in recipes. They can be dried and used as a spice. But, fresh flowers and leaves are also great for salads, soups, and stews.Leaves can be consumed raw or cooked. They have a somewhat bitter flavor yet they make a great addition to mixed salads. They are best used when young. Common yarrow leaves are also used as a hop-substitute for flavouring and as a preservative for beer. Although in general yarrow is a very nutritious and beneficial plant to add to the diet, it is recommended that this not be consumes in large quantities. Tea is made from the flowers and leaves.
coneflower commonly known as echinacea is a well-known medicinal herb. Its powerful healing properties have made this herbaceous plant a popular home remedy for colds.Echinacea is wonderful to grow as it is drought tolerant and doesn’t mind being planted in poor soil.
The petals are edible and will add a colourful splash to your dishes with the added benefit of its healing properties. They have a very floral taste and are often mixed with other herbs and sweeteners to better the flavour. 
Cow parsley is an edible plant. It has an interesting flavor which is a cross between wild chervil and carrot. Not surprising, since it is related to both. The various parts of the plant, such as the leaves, flowers, and stems are edible.The leaves are used as herbs.Somtimes it used as a substitute it is used as a substitute for chervil.Dried leaves can be brewed into tea.
Cowslip the leaves are slightly bitter but can be used in salads or cooked like spinach. The flowers have a lovely citrusy flavour and look great in salads or used as a garnish. They have also been traditionally used to flavour 'country' wines and for cowslip pudding, an old English dish.
The flowers have a slightly citrus taste and look great in salads. The leaves are slightly bitter but covered in dressing make a good salad ingredient.
Crimson Clover's the seeds and flowers are edible. Seeds can be sprouted and used in salads or sandwiches. They can also be dried and ground into flour. Flower heads can be used fresh or dried as a tea.
Crithmum Maritimum commonly known as Sea fennel, or Rock samphire, is an edible wild plant. It is found on coastlines throughout much of Europe (north to the British Isles), Macaronesia, parts of West Asia and North Africa in the Atlantic, Mediterranean and Black Sea coasts.
The ordinary daisy (Bellis perennis) that you see in lawns is an edible flower. Flower buds and young leaves can be added to salads or eaten in sandwiches. They can be used as an ingredient of soups, pickled as a susbstitute for capers and used to make wine.The much larger Ox-eye Daisy, Dog Daisy or Marguerite (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum) is another plant you can eat that is in the very large Asteraceae or Daisy family.
It is a pretty flower found growing in grassy places, in meadows and on banks. The flowers of the Ox-eye Daisy can be eaten sparingly in salads, in sandwiches or cooked in omelettes etc. So can the leaves but they are rather pungent and can be too strong in flavour for some palates.
Dandelion's Leaves, root, and flower. The leaves can be added to a salad or cooked, and can be dried and stored for the winter (they can also be blanched and frozen). Flowers can be made into juice, or added into many recipes. The root can be made into a coffee substitute, and the root along with the leaves can be dried, stored and made into tea.
Also called an herb fennel. Each has similar properties and all parts of each are edible. Both are known for their licorice or anise flavor.The different uses include soups, fish recipes, salads and teas.Fennel seeds are used in baked goods, desserts and even drinks.You can also use flowers, seeds and leaves for teas.
Fireweed the leaves, stems, and flowers are edible in the spring but become tough and bitter in summer. You can split open the stems of old plants and eat the pith raw. They are a good source of vitamin C and vitamin A.  The root can be roasted after scraping off the outer covering but often taste bitter.
Gardenia flowers they are eaten raw, pickled or preserved in honey. The fruits are also edible and used as yellow coloring for other fruits.Gardenia is a plant. The fruits are used to make medicine.Gardenia is used for swelling (inflammation), liver disorders, diabetes, and other conditions.
Garlic mustard is edible and should be harvested when young. The roots taste much like horseradish and the leaves are bitter when mature. The first year plant is a rosette, and its leaves can be harvested year-round. The second year plant can be eaten from early to midspring, before the tender shoots harden and while new leaves are available. Soft sprouts can be cut up into salads, sautéed in stir fry, or added to soups and stews.
The leaves and flowers of scented geraniums are edible.
It is generally safe to eat geranium leaves.  Thanks to the essential oils in their leaves, they lend not only decorative touches but also a fine aroma to meat dishes, salads and desserts. Varieties with a lemon aroma add zest to salads, sorbets or tea.
Edible ground ivy does have a pungent, minty flavor that works well for use as an herb in some foods. Aside from that, ground ivy is best used when the leaves are young and less pungent. It can be eaten fresh, although it's a bit tangy. Leaves can be cooked just as you would spinach.
Harebell leaves of this plant are edible and are best used in a salad.Add them to a smoothie, into your homemade dips or anywhere else to add some of its vitamin C.
Henbit can be consumed fresh or cooked as an edible herb, and it can be used in teas. The stem, flowers, and leaves are edible, and although this is in the mint family, many people say it tastes slightly like raw kale, not like mint. It is very nutritious, high in iron, vitamins and fibre. You can add it raw to salads, soups, wraps, or green smoothies. According to Natural Medicinal Herbs this edible plant is anti-rheumatic, diaphoretic, an excitant, febrifuge, a laxative and a stimulant.
Knapweed (Centaurea nigra) is wild, edible and nutritious food. Identify knapweed via its pictures, habitat,height, flowers and leaves.Flowers are edible. This plant has some medicinal purposes. The young leaves are cooked as a vegetable.Knapweed flowers are edible and can be added to salads.
Meadowsweet is a perennial plant in the Rosaceae family. Although edible, meadowsweet is more recognized as an herbal medicine used to help with many maladies. In particular the flower head contains salicylic acid.Young leaves are edible but are commonly used in soups and to make tea.Leaves, flowers, roots; all parts of the plant have been used.
Mullein is an easy-to-grow herb. Although the leaves and flowers are edible. Leaves and flowers can be used in a salad and can also be enjoying a cup of tea.
Pickerelweed seeds are tasty when roasted but they can be eaten raw or cooked. The young, unrolling leaves and the starchy nut-like fruit seeds of pickerelweed are edible.They are best collected when they fall into your hand right off the plant. They can be ground and made into flour or toss some seeds into your bread recipe. The young leaves can be eaten as greens; boil older leaves before ingesting. Young stalks are also edible.
Ramsons are wild garlic plants that you may see during a walk in the woods.Tasting strongly of spring onions and garlic. All of the plant is edible, including shoots, leaves, buds, flowers, flowering stems bulbils, seeds and bulbs/roots, though the latter should not be dug up as they tend to lack flavour/texture and you will be undermining future populations.
Red clover is a wild edible plant belonging to the legume family that is commonly used as food for cattle.Traditional Chinese medicine believed that it was a good tonic for colds, to purify the blood, and at one time they burned it as incense.Although leaves can be tossed into a salad or used in a tea, the preferable part of this wild edible is the flower. Red clovers are the tastiest of all clovers although it is recommended not to eat too many of these as some people experience bloating.The most common things to eat on the Clover are the flowerheads and the leaves, but are easier to eat if soaked for about an hour or boiled.







































